---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "maas_network_interface_bond Resource - terraform-provider-maas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage MAAS network Bonds.
---

# maas_network_interface_bond (Resource)

Provides a resource to manage MAAS network Bonds.



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `machine` (String) List of MAAS machines' identifiers (system ID, hostname, or FQDN) that will be tagged with the new tag.
- `name` (String) Name of the interface.
- `parents` (Set of String) Parent interface names for this bridge interface.

### Optional

- `accept_ra` (Boolean) Accept router advertisements. (IPv6 only).
- `autoconf` (Boolean) Perform stateless autoconfiguration. (IPv6 only).
- `bond_downdelay` (Number) Specifies the time, in milliseconds, to wait before disabling a slave after a link failure has been detected.
- `bond_lacp_rate` (String) Option specifying the rate at which to ask the link partner to transmit LACPDU packets in 802.3ad mode. Available options are ``fast`` or ``slow``. (Default: ``slow``).
- `bond_miimon` (Number) The link monitoring freqeuncy in milliseconds. (Default: 100).
- `bond_mode` (String) The operating mode of the bond. (Default: active-backup). Supported bonding modes: - ``balance-rr``: Transmit packets in sequential order from the first available slave through the last. This mode provides load balancing and fault tolerance. - ``active-backup``: Only one slave in the bond is active. A different slave becomes active if, and only if, the active slave fails. The bond's MAC address is externally visible on only one port (network adapter) to avoid confusing the switch. - ``balance-xor``: Transmit based on the selected transmit hash policy. The default policy is a simple [(source MAC address XOR'd with destination MAC address XOR packet type ID) modulo slave count]. - ``broadcast``: Transmits everything on all slave interfaces. This mode provides fault tolerance. - ``802.3ad``: IEEE 802.3ad dynamic link aggregation. Creates aggregation groups that share the same speed and duplex settings. Uses all slaves in the active aggregator according to the 802.3ad specification. - ``balance-tlb``: Adaptive transmit load balancing: channel bonding that does not require any special switch support. - ``balance-alb``: Adaptive load balancing: includes balance-tlb plus receive load balancing (rlb) for IPV4 traffic, and does not require any special switch support. The receive load balancing is achieved by ARP negotiation.
- `bond_num_grat_arp` (Number) The number of peer notifications (IPv4 ARP or IPv6 Neighbour Advertisements) to be issued after a failover. (Default: 1).
- `bond_updelay` (Number) Specifies the time, in milliseconds, to wait before enabling a slave after a link recovery has been detected.
- `bond_xmit_hash_policy` (String) The transmit hash policy to use for slave selection in balance-xor, 802.3ad, and tlb modes. Possible values are: ``layer2``, ``layer2+3``, ``layer3+4``, ``encap2+3``, ``encap3+4``. (Default: ``layer2``).
- `mac_address` (String) MAC address of the interface.
- `mtu` (Number) Maximum transmission unit.
- `tags` (Set of String) Tags for the interface.
- `vlan` (String) VLAN the interface is connected to.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

