---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "maas_vm_host_machine Resource - terraform-provider-maas"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Provides a resource to manage MAAS VM host machines.
---

# maas_vm_host_machine (Resource)

Provides a resource to manage MAAS VM host machines.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "maas_vm_host_machine" "kvm" {
  count   = 2
  vm_host = maas_vm_host.kvm.id
  cores   = 1
  memory  = 2048

  storage_disks {
    size_gigabytes = 15
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `vm_host` (String) ID or name of the VM host used to compose the new machine.

### Optional

- `cores` (Number) The number of CPU cores (defaults to 1).
- `domain` (String) The VM host machine domain. This is computed if it's not set.
- `hostname` (String) The VM host machine hostname. This is computed if it's not set.
- `memory` (Number) The VM host machine RAM memory, specified in MB (defaults to 2048).
- `network_interfaces` (Block List) A list of network interfaces for new the VM host. This argument only works when the VM host is deployed from a registered MAAS machine. Parameters defined below. This argument is processed in [attribute-as-blocks mode](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/attr-as-blocks.html). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--network_interfaces))
- `pinned_cores` (Number) List of host CPU cores to pin the VM host machine to. If this is passed, the `cores` parameter is ignored.
- `pool` (String) The VM host machine pool. This is computed if it's not set.
- `storage_disks` (Block List) A list of storage disks for the new VM host. Parameters defined below. This argument is processed in [attribute-as-blocks mode](https://www.terraform.io/docs/configuration/attr-as-blocks.html). (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--storage_disks))
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `zone` (String) The VM host machine zone. This is computed if it's not set.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--network_interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `network_interfaces`

Required:

- `name` (String) The network interface name.

Optional:

- `fabric` (String) The fabric for the network interface.
- `ip_address` (String) Static IP configured on the new network interface.
- `subnet_cidr` (String) The subnet CIDR for the network interface.
- `vlan` (String) The VLAN for the network interface.


<a id="nestedblock--storage_disks"></a>
### Nested Schema for `storage_disks`

Required:

- `size_gigabytes` (Number) The storage disk size, specified in GB.

Optional:

- `pool` (String) The VM host storage pool name.


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# VM host machines can be imported using the identifier of the MAAS machine (system ID, hostname, or FQDN). e.g.
$ terraform import maas_vm_host_machine.test machine-02
```
